---
parent_category: alerts
parent_category_label: Alerts & Notifications

path: '{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/alerts'
title: 'Active alerts'
type: GET

sortorder: 1
category-sortorder: 45
layout: null
---

Returns a list of all active alerts, active at any given time.

### Optional (Querystring) Parameters

* `format=json|xml` optional, specifies the format of output requested.  See [Output Formats][overview-outputformats] for more information
* `window=[0-9]+[smhdw]?` specifies a window of time for the result set.  See [Time Ranges][overview-timerange] for more information.
* `from=YYYY-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS&to=YYYY-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS` specifies an explicit start (and optionally, end) for your range of data.  See [Time Ranges][overview-timerange] for more information.
* `aid={aid}` optional and requires the user to be assigned to the target account group, specifies the account group context of the request, obtained from the `/account-groups` endpoint.  Specifying this parameter without the user being assigned to the target account will result in an error response. See [Account group context][overview-accountcontext] for more information

### Request

* no request body

### Example

`$ curl https://api.thousandeyes.com{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/alerts.json \
  -u noreply@thousandeyes.com:g351mw5xqhvkmh1vq6zfm51c62wyzib2`

### Response

Sends back an array of active alerts, either at present, or based on the time range specified, indicating testId and testName, alert rule.  If no alerts are active during the time range specified, an empty response will be returned.

Field | Data Type | Units | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
alertId | integer | n/a | unique ID of the alert; each alert occurrence is assigned a new unique ID
testId | integer | n/a | unique ID of the test (see `/tests/{testId}` endpoint for more detail)
ruleId | integer | n/a | unique ID of the alert rule (see `/alert-rules` endpoint for more detail)
testName | string | n/a | name of the test
active | integer | n/a | 0 for inactive, 1 for active, 2 for disabled. Alert is disabled if either alert rule itself has been deleted or the test it is applied to has been disabled, deleted, disabled alerting, or disassociated the alert rule from the test
ruleExpression | string | n/a | string expression of alert rule
dateStart | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | the date/time where an alert rule was triggered, expressed in UTC
dateEnd | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | the date/time where the alert was marked as cleared, expressed in UTC
violationCount | integer | n/a | number of sources currently meeting the alert criteria
ruleName | string | n/a | name of the alert rule
permalink | string | n/a | hyperlink to alerts list, with row expanded
type | string | n/a | type of alert being triggered
agents | array of agent objects | n/a | array of monitors where the alert has at some point been active since the point that the alert was triggered.  Not shown on BGP alerts.
monitors | array of monitor objects | n/a | array of monitors where the alert has at some point been active since the point that the alert was triggered.  Only shown on BGP alerts.
apiLinks | array of links | n/a | list of hyperlinks to other areas of the API
severity | string | n/a | field with one of the following values: INFO, MAJOR, MINOR, CRITICAL for all alert types


Agent and Monitor objects (see above) reflect the following content:

Field | Data Type | Units | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
dateStart | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | reflects the date that the source began reporting a measurement that exceeded the alert rule's threshold, expressed in UTC
dateEnd | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | reflects the earlier of the date that the alert was cleared, or the source reported a measurement that was under the alert rule's threshold, expressed in UTC
active | boolean | n/a | if the particular source is alerting when the API is queried, this flag will be set to 1.  After an alert has cleared, this flag (regardless of the source's metrics) will be set to 0, even if the particular source has not cleared the alert rule.
metricsAtStart | string | n/a | string representation of the metric at the time that the source began alerting.  Note that the alert start and dateStart for a particular source do not need to be the same, as sources may change alerting status throughout an alert's lifecycle
metricsAtEnd | string | n/a | string representation of the metric or metrics being considered in the alert rule at the point that the alert was cleared.  If the alert is not yet cleared, this field reflects the last round of data gathered from the source.
agentId/monitorId | integer | n/a | unique ID of agent or monitor violating the alert rule.  See `/agents` or `/bgp-monitors` for more detail
agentName/monitorName | string | n/a | display name of the agent or monitor violating the alert rule
permalink | string | n/a | hyperlink to alerts list, with row expanded


#### Header

```HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Mon, 09 May 2016 16:04:24 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Cache-Control: no-store
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Limit: 240
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Remaining: 228
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Reset: 1493373360
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000
X-Server-Name: 1-1```

#### Body

```{
    "alert": [
        {
            "alertId": 2783,
            "testId": 822,
            "ruleId": 142,
            "testName": "thousandeyes.com A",
            "active": 1,
            "ruleExpression": "((probDetail != \"\"))",
            "dateStart": "2012-12-13 13:15:00",
            "violationCount": 6,
            "ruleName": "Default DNSSEC Alert Rule",
            "createLinks": true,
            "permalink": "https://app.thousandeyes.com/alerts/list?__a=75&alertId=2783",
            "type": "DNSSEC",
            "agents": [
                {
                    "agentId": 12,
                    "agentName": "Hong Kong",
                    "dateStart": "2012-12-13 13:15:00",
                    "active": 1,
                    "metricsAtStart": "Error details: \"No DNSSEC public key(s) for thousandeyes.com A\"",
                    "metricsAtEnd": "Error details: \"No DNSSEC public key(s) for thousandeyes.com A\"",
                    "permalink": "https://app.thousandeyes.com/alerts/list?__a=75&alertId=2783&agentId=12"
                },
                ...
            ],
            "apiLinks": [...],
            "severity": "INFO"
        }
    ],
    "pages": {
        "current": 1
    }
}```

For error responses, see the [response status codes documentation][overview-responsestatuscodes].
