---
parent_category: admin
parent_category_label: Administrative endpoints

path: '{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/users'
title: 'User list'
type: GET

sortorder: 5
category-sortorder: 60

layout: null
---

{.inline-code}Returns the list of all users that belong to the Organization, your selected aid is part of. Returns detailed information about a specific user.  Requires that the user making the request has the `API Access` and `View all users` permissions.  See [Account Context][overview-accountcontext] for more information on changing Account Group context.

### Optional (querystring) Parameters

* `format=json|xml` optional, specifies the format of output requested.  See [Output Formats][overview-outputformats] for more information
* `aid={aid}` optional, changes the account group context of the current request. If an invalid account group ID is specified as a parameter, the response will come back as an HTTP/400 error

### Request

* There is no request body for this request.
* There are no request parameters for this request.

### Example

`$ curl https://api.thousandeyes.com{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/users.json \
  -u noreply@thousandeyes.com:g351mw5xqhvkmh1vq6zfm51c62wyzib2`

### Response

If successful, returns a list of users assigned to the current account group.  

Field | Data Type | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|
name | string | the name of the user
email | string | email address for the user
uid | integer | unique user ID for the user
lastLogin | dateTime | the last login of the user (UTC)
dateRegistered | dateTime | the date the user registered their account (UTC)
loginAccountGroup | accountGroup object | login accountGroup for the user
loginAccountGroup.accountGroupName | string | name of the accountGroup
loginAccountGroup.aid | integer | system-generated unique ID of the account group

#### Header

```HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Mon, 09 May 2016 16:04:24 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Cache-Control: no-store
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Limit: 240
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Remaining: 233
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Reset: 1493736900
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000
X-Server-Name: 1-3```

#### Body

```{
    "users": [
        {
            "dateRegistered": "2012-06-27 17:23:50",
            "email": "noreply@thousandeyes.com",
            "lastLogin": "2013-11-26 17:53:42",
            "loginAccountGroup": {
                "accountGroupName": "API Sandbox",
                "aid": 75
            },
            "name": "API Sandbox User",
            "uid": 245
        },
        ...
    ]
}```

For more information on our HTTP response status codes, see the [response status codes documentation][overview-responsestatuscodes].
