---
parent_category: snapshots
parent_category_label: Snapshots

path: '{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/snapshot'
title: 'Create a new snapshot'
type: POST

sortorder: 1
category-sortorder: 35
layout: null
---

{.inline-code}Creates a new snapshot in ThousandEyes, based on properties provided in the POST data. This endpoint requires the `Create snapshot shares` permission be assigned to the role of the user accessing this endpoint.

Regular users are blocked from using any of the POST-based methods.

Important notes related to snapshot creation using this endpoint:

* There is a creation limit of 100 snapshots per Organization per day.
* Snapshots created using this endpoint will **expire after 30 days**.
* The time range specified with `from` and `to` must be one of the following: 1, 2, 4, 6, 12, 24, 48, 96 hours.
* Endpoint Agent snapshots **cannot be created using this endpoint**.

### Optional (Querystring) Parameters

* `format=json|xml` optional, specifies the format of output requested.  See [Output Formats][overview-outputformats] for more information
* `aid={aid}` optional and requires the user to be assigned to the target account group, specifies the account group context of the request, obtained from the `/account-groups` endpoint.  Specifying this parameter without the user being assigned to the target account will result in an error response. See [Account group context][overview-accountcontext] for more information

### Request

* request body containing the following fields:

Field | Data Type | Required/Optional | Units | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
displayName | string | Required | n/a | Title of the snapshot
from | dateTime | Required | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | The date/time when the snapshot will start
isPublic | integer | Optional | n/a | 0 for saved event, 1 for share link. Defaults to 0
testId | integer | Required | n/a | The ID of the test you wish to create a snapshot
to | dateTime | Required | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | The date/time when the snapshot will end


### Example

```$ curl https://api.thousandeyes.com{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/snapshot.json \
  -d '{
    "testId": 19955,
    "displayName": "Snapshot created through API",
    "from": "2018-10-06T00:00:00",
    "to": "2018-10-06T01:00:00",
    "isPublic": 1
  }' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Accept: application/json" \
  -u noreply@thousandeyes.com:g351mw5xqhvkmh1vq6zfm51c62wyzib2
```

### Response

If the snapshot is successfully created, an HTTP/201 CREATED response will be returned, and the snapshot details will be returned. See the example below:

#### Body

```{
    "link": {
        "displayName": "Snapshot created through API",
        "endRoundId": 1538787600,
        "extraParams": "",
        "linkId": "wdiac",
        "roundId": 1538784000,
        "shareDate": "2018-10-19 03:02:01",
        "sourceTestId": 19955,
        "startRoundId": 1538784000,
        "testId": 58856,
        "uid": 5784,
        "viewUrl": "https://wdiac.share.thousandeyes.com/view/tests/"
    },
    "test": []
}```

For error responses, see the [response status codes documentation][overview-responsestatuscodes].
