---
parent_category: alerts
parent_category_label: Alerts & Notifications

path: '{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/alerts'
title: 'Active alerts'
type: GET

sortorder: 1
category-sortorder: 45
layout: null
---

Returns a list of all active alerts, or alerts that started within a given time range.

### Optional (Querystring) Parameters

* `window=[0-9]+[smhdw]?` specifies a window of time for the result set.  See [Time Ranges][overview-timerange] for more information.
* `from=YYYY-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS&to=YYYY-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS` specifies an explicit start (and optionally, end) for your range of data.  See [Time Ranges][overview-timerange] for more information.
* `aid={aid}` optional and requires the user to be assigned to the target account group, specifies the account group context of the request, obtained from the `/account-groups` endpoint.  Specifying this parameter without the user being assigned to the target account will result in an error response. See [Account group context][overview-accountcontext] for more information

### Request

* no request body

### Example

`$ curl https://api.thousandeyes.com{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/alerts \
  -u noreply@thousandeyes.com:g351mw5xqhvkmh1vq6zfm51c62wyzib2`

### Response

Sends back an array of presently active alerts, or alerts that became active during the time range specified.
If the specific time range is requested, only the alerts that have triggered in that time range will be returned.
If no alerts were triggered during the time range specified, an empty response will be returned.

Field | Data Type | Units | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
alertId | integer | n/a | unique ID of the alert; each alert occurrence is assigned a new unique ID
alertType | string | n/a | type of alert being triggered. In multi-layered tests, this value represents the layer the alert relates to. See [Alert Details][alert-details] documentation for a list of possible values
apiLinks | array of links | n/a | list of hyperlinks to other areas of the API
dateStart | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | the date/time where an alert rule was triggered, expressed in UTC
dateEnd | dateTime | yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss | the date/time where the alert has cleared, expressed in UTC
permalink | string | n/a | hyperlink to alerts list, with row expanded
ruleId | integer | n/a | unique ID of the alert rule (see `/alert-rules` endpoint for more detail)
state | string | n/a | current state of the alert. Possible values: `ACTIVE`, `CLEARED`, or `DISABLED` (when the test is deleted or disabled, or when the alert rule is deleted or disassociated from the test)
severity | string | n/a | field with one of the following values: INFO, MAJOR, MINOR, CRITICAL for all alert types

#### Header

```HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 23 Apr 2020 13:09:28 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Cache-Control: no-store
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Limit: 240
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Remaining: 228
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Reset: 1587647400
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000
```

#### Body

```{
    "alerts": [
        {
            "alertId": 2556232,
            "alertType": "http-server",
            "apiLinks": [
                {
                    "href": "https://api.thousandeyes.com/v7/alerts/http-server/2556232",
                    "rel": "self"
                },
                {
                    "href": "https://api.thousandeyes.com/v6/alert-rules/289585.json",
                    "rel": "rule"
                }
            ],
            "dateStart": "2020-04-23 13:43:16",
            "permalink": "https://app.thousandeyes.com/alerts/list/?__a=7625&alertId=2556232",
            "ruleId": 289585,
            "state": "ACTIVE",
            "severity": "INFO"
        },
        {
            "alertId": 2257070,
            "alertType": "network-outage",
            "apiLinks": [ ... ],
            "dateStart": "2020-02-20 07:45:00",
            "permalink": "https://app.thousandeyes.com/alerts/list/?__a=7625&alertId=2257070",
            "ruleId": 186333,
            "state": "ACTIVE",
            "severity": "INFO"
        }
    ]
}```

For error responses, see the [response status codes documentation][overview-responsestatuscodes].
