---
parent_category: admin
parent_category_label: Administrative endpoints

path: '{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/users/new'
title: 'Adding a user'
type: POST

sortorder: 7
category-sortorder: 60

layout: null
---

Creates a new user.  

### Optional (querystring) Parameters

* `format=json|xml` optional, specifies the format of output requested.  See [Output Formats][overview-outputformats] for more information
* `aid={aid}` optional, changes the account group context of the current request.  If an invalid account group ID is specified as a parameter, the response will come back as an HTTP/400 error

### Request

* `content-type` and `accept` headers must be set (both to `application/json`) when using this endpoint.
* Request body should contain the following fields:

Field | Data Type | Required/Optional | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
name | string | optional | the name of the user
email | string | required | email address for the user
loginAccountGroup | accountGroup object | required | login accountGroup for the user.  If the user being added is already associated with another ThousandEyes organization, this value will be ignored.  The user (once added) can modify his default account group as needed.
loginAccountGroup.aid | integer | required for loginAccountGroup object | system-generated unique ID of the account group
accountGroupRoles | list of accountGroupRole objects | see notes | see below; either the accountGroupRoles object or the allAccountGroupRoles object must be specified.
accountGroupRoles.accountGroupName.aid | integer | required for accountGroupName object | unique account ID for the accountGroupName
accountGroupRoles.roles.roleID | integer | required for roles object | system-defined unique ID of the role
allAccountGroupRoles | list of roles objects | optional | either the accountGroupRoles object or the allAccountGroupRoles object must be specified.
allAccountGroupRoles.roles.roleID | integer | required for roles object | system-defined unique ID of the role

A few notes on the topic of user creation:

* If the user is already a member of another ThousandEyes customer's organization, the user will need to set their own login account group.
* Any update which contains accountGroupRoles is a replace-based update, rather than a delta-based update.

### Example

```$ curl https://api.thousandeyes.com{{ site.version_url_prefix_request }}/users/new \
  -H "Accept: application/json" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{  
    "name":"newest username",
    "email":"dave+documentationNEW@thousandeyes.com",
    "loginAccountGroup": { "aid":691 },
    "accountGroupRoles":[  
      {  
        "accountGroup": { "aid":315 },
        "roles":[  
          { "roleId":57 }
        ]
      },
      {  
        "accountGroup": { "aid":691 },
        "roles":[  
          { "roleId":60 }
        ]
      }
   ],
   "allAccountGroupRoles": [
     { "roleId": 1140 }
   ]
  }' \
  -u noreply@thousandeyes.com:g351mw5xqhvkmh1vq6zfm51c62wyzib2```


### Response

If the request is successful, returns an object in the same format as the user detail endpoint.  In the event that the request fails, check the response body for more information.

Field | Data Type | Notes
:------------|-------------|-------------|
name | string | the name of the user
email | string | email address for the user
uid | integer | unique user ID for the user
loginAccountGroup | accountGroup object | login accountGroup for the user
loginAccountGroup.accountGroupName | string | name of the accountGroup
loginAccountGroup.aid | integer | system-generated unique ID of the account group
accountGroupRoles | list of accountGroupRole objects | see below
accountGroupRoles.accountGroup.accountGroupName | string | name of the accountGroup
accountGroupRoles.accountGroupName.aid | integer | unique account ID for the accountGroup
accountGroupRoles.roles.roleName | string | the name of the role
accountGroupRoles.roles.roleID | integer | system-defined unique ID of the role
accountGroupRoles.roles.hasManagementPermissions | integer | 1 for roles with management permissions, 0 for roles without
accountGroupRoles.roles.builtin | integer | 1 for built-in roles (Account Admin, Organization Admin, Regular User), 0 for user-defined roles
allAccountGroupRoles | list of roles objects | see below
allAccountGroupRoles.roles.roleName | string | the name of the role
allAccountGroupRoles.roles.roleID | integer | system-defined unique ID of the role
allAccountGroupRoles.roles.hasManagementPermissions | integer | 1 for roles with management permissions, 0 for roles without
allAccountGroupRoles.roles.builtin | integer | 1 for built-in roles (Account Admin, Organization Admin, Regular User), 0 for

#### Header

```HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Mon, 09 May 2016 16:04:24 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Cache-Control: no-store
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Limit: 240
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Remaining: 233
X-Organization-Rate-Limit-Reset: 1493736900
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000
X-Server-Name: 1-3```

#### Body

```{
    "users": [
        {
            "name": "My new user",
            "email": "dave+apitesting@thousandeyes.com",
            "uid": 3914,
            "loginAccountGroup": {
                "accountGroupName": "Documentation",
                "aid": 315
            },
            "accountGroupRoles": [
                {
                    "accountGroup": {
                        "accountGroupName": "Doc Account 2",
                        "aid": 691
                    },
                    "roles": [
                        {
                            "roleName": "Organization Admin",
                            "roleId": 60,
                            "hasManagementPermissions": 1,
                            "builtin": 1
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "accountGroup": {
                        "accountGroupName": "Documentation",
                        "aid": 315
                    },
                    "roles": [
                        {
                            "roleName": "Account Admin",
                            "roleId": 57,
                            "hasManagementPermissions": 0,
                            "builtin": 1
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}```

For more information on our HTTP response status codes, see the [response status codes documentation][overview-responsestatuscodes].
